Title: 3M vs. United Parcel Service_ One of These Industrial Stocks Is a Much Better Buy Right Now
Date: 2026-04-16 00:35
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/15/3m-vs-united-parcel-service-one-of-these-industria/?.tsrc=rss
Content:
3M and UPS are iconic companies facing material headwinds, but one is expensive, and the other is cheap.
3M(MMM0.86%)andUnited Parcel Service(UPS+0.26%)do completely different things: one is a manufacturer, and the other a provider of delivery services. However, both are iconic businesses facing material headwinds. And one of them looks a lot more interesting as an investment right now, particularly if you are a dividend investor.
3M has been through a difficult transition. After a period of sluggish growth,the industrial conglomeratechose to slim down and refocus. The biggest move was the spin-off of its healthcare business intoSolventum(SOLV+0.07%). That was the company's crown jewel, and without this business, 3M won't be able to grow as quickly.
Image source: Getty Images.
This move brings up the larger problem. 3M has been facing material legal liabilities, including class action lawsuits related to forever chemicals (PFAS) and earplugs sold to the military. The company needed the cash it raised from the spin-off to ensure it could work through its legal issues. However, the legal issues aren't over yet, so there remains a material and uncertain overhang on the business. And yet the stock's price-to-sales, price-to-earnings, and price-to-book ratios are all notably above their five-year averages.
3M had a solid 2025, with organic sales up 2.1% and earnings up 10%. The valuation reflects that strong performance, but it doesn't appear to recognize the still material and uncertain legal risks.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
By comparison, UPS looks cheap. Its P/S, P/E, and P/B ratios are all below their five-year averages. And while UPS is facing its own challenges, they aren't of the legal variety. So investors can more closely monitor what is going on and don't have to worry about big surprises, like the loss of a material court case. The big problem with UPS is a turnaround effort aimed at slimming down and refocusing the business on growth.
In this case, the turnaround has required material upfront costs (capital investments in new equipment) even as the effort reduced revenues (shifting away from high-volume customers that aren't very profitable to serve). That's led to a period of weak financial performance. However, there are signs of improvement, with revenue per piece in the U.S. market rising. And the company believes that 2026 will be the inflection point in the turnaround effort.
When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is1,002%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to195%for the S&P 500.
They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor.
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 16, 2026.
Neither 3M nor UPS is a risk-free investment given their current headwinds. But 3M's legal problems are harder to quantify, the stock looks expensive, and it only offers a 2% dividend yield. UPS, on the other hand, appears to be making progress on its turnaround, has a far more attractive valuation, and a 6.3% yield. For most, andparticularly for dividend investors, UPS is probably the better option.




Before you buy stock in3M, consider this:
The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… and3Mwasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years.
Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $573,160!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,204,712!*
Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is1,002% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to195%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors.
See the 10 stocks ›
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 16, 2026.

Reuben Gregg Brewerhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends 3M and United Parcel Service. The Motley Fool recommends Solventum. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy.
This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over55 Metas.
What in the world could be worth 55 Metas? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited.
Continue ›

*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends
*$249 for one year is a promotional price for new members only. 50% discount based on the current list price of Epic of $499/year. Membership will renew annually at the then-current list price. Offer expires on April 18, 2026, at 11:59 pm PDT.
