Title: TSMC quarterly profit leaps 58% to record, beats expectations
Date: 2026-04-16 00:05
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/tsmc-set-post-50-quarterly-000551299.html?.tsrc=rss
Content:
Oops, something went wrong
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
Tax refunds shoot up as Americans take advantage of new deductions
S&P 500 closes above 7,000 for the first time, Nasdaq hits record as stocks erase Iran war losses
The former sneaker company's stock rose over 600% after announcing its rebrand as an AI company
S&P 500, Nasdaq rise as Dow falls amid hopes for US-Iran talks
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq rallied toward record highs on hopes of an Iran deal while oil tumbled
Bitcoin bounced above $74,000, but Wall Street warns it could go lower before it goes higher
US stocks rise amid Iran deal hopes, earnings rush, cooler-than-expected PPI
JPMorgan profits rise 13%, Dimon warns of 'increasingly complex set of risks'
US stocks sink after Trump orders Hormuz blockade against Iran
Goldman Sachs Q1 profits climb thanks to jumps in M&A dealmaking and record equity trading
The stock market's latest rally is reviving a familiar trade — but not all of the Magnificent Seven are coming along for the ride.
Gen Z is driving IRA contributions to record highs. Here's how to get started.
Wall Street strategists say it's time to 'jump in' with tech stocks
Trump says US will blockade Strait of Hormuz after Iran talks fail (Bloomberg)
Bank earnings, US-Iran talks, and signs of stability for stocks: What to watch this week
Shaq, in NYC discussing his new investment with retailer tm:rw, said the NBA dunk contest isn't what it used to be.
Used car prices hit highest levels since 2023 and could push higher
Why Starlink is so important to SpaceX's IPO
What to know about X Money, Elon Musk's fintech app that claims to pay 6% on savings
The housing market is shifting toward buyers. Just not in New Jersey.
Wall Street's biggest banks are riding into the first quarter earnings season on far less certain ground than where they began 2026.
Watch: OpenAI CEO Sam Altman's house was reportedly the target of a Molotov cocktail attack on Friday. Yahoo Finance's Dan Howley explains.
Stocks post second straight winning week amid fragile US-Iran ceasefire
US tariff revenue dropped by over $4 billion in March. It's down almost 30% since October.
US stocks open higher after March CPI inflation data shows energy surge
Inflation soars by most since 2022 as gas prices bite
Americans close to retirement are saving for later, but they're worried about getting by right now
Government data out Friday will show how much consumer prices rose in March — and forecasts point to soaring inflation.
Palantir plunges after 'Big Short' investor Michael Burry says Anthropic is eating its lunch
Stocks rebounded to extend their winning streak, while oil rose ahead of US-Iran talks
Stocks turned positive after Israel agreed to talks with Lebanon, reviving optimism for the US-Iran ceasefire
US stocks pull back, oil surges as US-Iran ceasefire looks increasingly shaky
Sticky reading on inflation pre-war will keep Fed on hold
The New York Times may have found bitcoin founder Satoshi Nakamoto. Here's what you need to know.
Fed officials saw risks of the Iran war increasing inflation and delaying rate cuts in a March meeting
The Strait of Hormuz has immediately become the first major flash point of Trump's 'fragile' ceasefire
US stocks surged while oil prices plunged as relief from a fragile US-Iran ceasefire rippled through markets
US stocks soar, with Dow surging nearly 1,400 points as Iran truce restarts Hormuz traffic
Delta beats on Q1 earnings, maintains guidance despite fuel spike, TSA headwinds
Investors are turning to social media and following 'finfluencers' to inform their investment decisions
High new car prices, rising gas costs, and rising interest rates brought buyers to used car lots
Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq futures soar after Trump calls for two-week ceasefire
Markets weigh the chances of economic fallout from an attack on Iran against previous threats from Trump
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq ended the day slightly higher on hopes of an Iran deadline extension
Anthropic launches cybersecurity partnership with Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Nvidia, and others
Tech is doing everything right and getting left behind. Here's what could turn that around.
US stocks drift lower as Trump's deadline for Iran ultimatum looms
US gas prices risk topping $5 per gallon if the Strait of Hormuz stays closed, JPMorgan says
Netflix stands to get richer after losing Warner Bros. bidding war. Here's why.
Goldman Sachs delivered a warning to laid-off tech workers that it will take more time to find a new job than expected
By Wen-Yee Lee, Faith Hung and Ben Blanchard
TAIPEI, April 16 (Reuters) - TSMC, the world's main producer of advanced AI chips and a major supplier toNvidia, on Thursday ‌posted a 58% jump in first-quarter profit to record levels that handily beat market ‌forecasts.
Benefiting from surging demand for advanced chips used inartificial intelligenceapplications, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co said net profit for ​January-March climbed to T$572.5 billion ($18.2 billion), its eighth straight quarter of double-digit growth.
What drove TSMC's record-breaking 58% profit jump?
What are TSMC's major capital investment plans?
How does geopolitical risk affect TSMC's operations?
What drove TSMC's record 58% profit surge?
That was well ahead of a T$543.3 billion LSEG SmartEstimate drawn from 19 analysts. SmartEstimates are weighted toward forecasts from analysts who are more consistently accurate.
Demand for Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co's 3-nanometre technology to produce AI chips and its advanced packaging ‌technology continue to outstrip the firm's ⁠current production capacity, according to analysts.
Revenue from the advanced 3-nm chips now accounts for a quarter of the company's sales, up sharply from just 6% ⁠in the third quarter of 2023, underscoring insatiable demand for high-performance chips required for AI workloads.
That's driven Asia's most valuable company, also a key supplier toApple, to new heights.
Ahead of the earnings results, TSMC shares ​closed ​up 0.2% at a record of T$2,085. Its market ​capitalisation is now nearly double that of ‌South Korean rival Samsung Electronics at around $1.7 trillion.
Last week, TSMC posted a 35% year-on-year rise in first-quarter revenue, ahead of market forecasts.
The war in the Middle East threatens to disrupt the supply of production materials for semiconductors such as helium and neon, but TSMC is seen by analysts as well-placed to weather the crisis.
One area of focus on its earnings call scheduled for 0600 GMT will ‌be whether TSMC maintains or raises its 2026 capital ​spending plans as that will reflect management's confidence in long-term ​AI demand, analysts said.
At its last earnings ​call in January, the company said capital spending this year would hit between $52 ‌billion and $56 billion, up as much as ​37% from 2025's $40.9 billion.
TSMC ​is investing $165 billion to build chip factories in the U.S. state of Arizona.
The company has also revised its plans in Japan and is now set to manufacture 3-nanometre chips there, ​instead of focusing on more mature ‌nodes.
TSMC's Taipei-listed shares have gained 35% so far this year, outperforming the 28% rise ​for the broader market.
($1 = 31.5180 Taiwan dollars)
(Reporting by Wen-Yee Lee, Faith Hung and Ben ​Blanchard; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman and Edwina Gibbs)
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
Sign in to access your portfolio
