Title: Prediction_ Women's Sports Won't Save Nike Stock
Date: 2026-04-15 09:35
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/15/prediction-womens-sports-wont-save-nike-stock/?.tsrc=rss
Content:
The iconic athletic apparel brand is facing tough competition, even if a women's sports boom boosts growth.
Women's sports are going through a golden era of rapid growth in the U.S., with rising fan interest in women's professional basketball, women's soccer, and more. Most investors might expect that bigger audiences for women's sports will be good news for athleticapparel stockslikeNike(NKE+2.81%). After all, Nike signed WNBA star Caitlin Clark to a record-breaking signature shoe deal in April 2024.
But although the rise of women's sports is great news for sports fans, it might not be good news for NKE shareholders. The company's stock has lost more than 50% of its value in the past two years since Caitlin Clark's shoe deal was announced. It's not Clark's fault -- NKE shares are down 68% in the past five years.
Let's look at a few big reasons why rapid growth in women's sports won't be enough to come to the rescue for Nike investors.
A McKinsey research report from August 2025 found that women's sports revenue grew 4.5 times faster than men's sports during 2022-2024. The report also predicted that the women's sports market could grow by 250% in the next few years, with total revenue for rightsholders rising from $1 billion in 2024 to $2.5 billion in 2030.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Women's sports could be an even bigger opportunity than that. McKinsey research estimates the size of the U.S. sports market (men's and women's sports) at $75 billion as of 2024, with women's sports making up $1 billion, or 1.3% of that total market size. Even if women's sports never grow to a 50-50 split of that total market, there is massive room for growth.
Image source: Getty Images.
Some investors might believe that a "Caitlin Clark Effect" could helpNikeboost its growth and profits. What if there's an untapped market of women's sports fans who will buy more basketball shoes?
One little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly" owns the technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size.
We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name.
Nike seems to be seeing some sales increases from women's sports -- according to its latest annual report, the company's women's business in the Basketball category expanded 50% in 2025. However, the company is also facing some big headwinds. Even if Nike can sell more athletic shoes to women's sports fans, it might lose market share in other products.
A recent analyst report fromPiper Sandlerwarned that the athleisure market is getting saturated with too many similar-looking brands and that mostgrowthis being driven by new brands instead of legacy companies like Nike. In its most recent quarterly earnings report, Nike reported year-over-year revenue growth of 3% in North America (where most of the women's sports boom is happening) but got hit by a 7% decline in sales in Greater China.
Even if there is continued strong growth in the women's sports industry, that won't necessarily drive big gains inNike stock. I don't rate NKE as a buy.




Before you buy stock inNike, consider this:
The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andNikewasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years.
Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $573,160!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,204,712!*
Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is1,002% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to195%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors.
See the 10 stocks ›
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 16, 2026.

Ben Granhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Nike. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy.
This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over35 Amazons.
What in the world could be worth 35 Amazons? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited.
Continue ›

*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends
Get our brand-new Epic Portfolio for
Most investors have a portfolio built for a market that no longer exists. Our CEO, Tom Gardner, challenged our best teams to build a"plan, not just a list"—a complete, ready-to-invest portfolio designed for this chaotic market.
We believe in these stocks so much that The Motley Fool is investing$100,000of our own cash right alongside you.
*50% discount based on the current list price of Epic of $499/year. Promotional price is for new members only. Membership will renew annually at the then-current list price. Offer expires on April 18, 2026, at 11:59 pm PDT.
