Title: 3 High-Yielding Dividend Stocks to Buy, Even If You're Worried About the Market
Date: 2026-04-15 15:35
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/15/3-high-yielding-dividend-stocks-to-buy-even-if-you/?.tsrc=rss
Content:
These stocks pay between 3.3% and 6.3% and are backed by strong financials.
Dividend stocks may not be flashy investments, but they can be dependable ones, particularly if you're worried about the market. They can generate recurring income for your portfolio and help boost your overall returns, which can be important in a downturn.
Three stocks that can be compelling options for investors today areAbbVie(ABBV+0.01%),Chevron(CVX1.16%), andVici Properties(VICI0.81%). They offer high yields, have strong fundamentals, and these stocks all outperformed theS&P 500back in 2022, when the market went into a tailspin. Here's a closer look at why you may want to consider loading up on these soliddividend stockstoday.
Image source: Getty Images.
Drugmaker AbbVie is a tophealthcare companyto invest in, regardless of economic conditions. It has a broad portfolio of drugs, which helps position it for strong long-term growth. Its revenue rose by about 9% last year, driven by strong results from its immunology and neuroscience segments. But the business also has drugs in other areas, including oncology and eye care. It also owns Botox. Its operations are broad and diverse, making AbbVie one of the best healthcare stocks to own.
Its stability has enabled it to pay dividends and raise them consistently over the years. Currently, the stock yields 3.3%, which is close to three times the S&P 500 average of 1.2%. It's an excellent payout for a stock with tremendous upside potential. Based on analyst expectations, AbbVie's stock trades at a forward price-to-earnings multiple of just 14, making it an attractive value buy today.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Back in 2022, when the S&P 500 crashed by 19%, AbbVieroseby a similar amount, defying the broader market bearishness. It could once again be a safe-haven investment for investors to turn to if there's a near-term crash, given not only its high dividend but also its attractive valuation.

Investing inoil and gas stockscan be a good move for dividend investors, particularly when oil prices are as high as they are now. In 2022, when the markets crashed, oil prices were also elevated, and back then, Chevron's stock rallied by 53%, and that's without factoring in its dividend.
When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is1,002%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to195%for the S&P 500.
They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor.
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 16, 2026.
This year, the stock is up around 23%. While that has an inverse effect on its yield, Chevron's stock still pays 3.8%, which can be highly valuable for dividend investors. It has also been increasing its payout for decades, giving you plenty of incentive to just remain invested for the long haul.
The business can experience volatility due to oil prices, but its financial results have remained strong: Chevron has generated an operating profit of at least $16 billion in each of the past four years, and its annual free cash flow has also been above $15 billion over that time frame.
It's a solid investment to hold on to, as the stock has proven to be a reliable source of dividend income across a wide range of economic conditions.
Vici Properties is the highest-yielding stock on this list, paying 6.3%. The real estate investment trust (REIT) owns various properties, including casinos, racetracks, golf courses, bowling alleys, and hotels. The company generated strong and steady results last year, with revenue rising by 4% to just over $4 billion, and net income climbing by a similar percentage, to $2.8 billion.
By having a diverse mix of properties, the REIT can be in a good position to do well even if the economy is struggling, and it was indeed a safe investment in 2022 when the market crashed. That year, shares of Vici Properties rose by a little less than 8%. It was a good, steady performance for the REIT. And when combined with its high dividend, its total returns were around 13%.
This year, the stock has been underperforming the S&P 500 slightly, as it's up around just 1%. But with a strong dividend and the potential to be a safe-haven investment under more challenging market conditions, it can prove to be an underrated buy right now. Vici's dividend, while high, doesn't appear to be in any danger as the REIT's funds from operations per share came in at $2.61 last year, comfortably higher than the rate of its annual dividend per share -- $1.80.
For dividend investors, this may be one of the better stocks to buy right now.




Before you buy stock inAbbVie, consider this:
The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andAbbViewasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years.
Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $573,160!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,204,712!*
Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is1,002% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to195%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors.
See the 10 stocks ›
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 16, 2026.

David Jagielski, CPAhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends AbbVie and Chevron. The Motley Fool recommends Vici Properties. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy.
This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over18 Nvidias.
What in the world could be worth 18 Nvidias? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited.
Continue ›

*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends
Get our brand-new Epic Portfolio for
Most investors have a portfolio built for a market that no longer exists. Our CEO, Tom Gardner, challenged our best teams to build a"plan, not just a list"—a complete, ready-to-invest portfolio designed for this chaotic market.
We believe in these stocks so much that The Motley Fool is investing$100,000of our own cash right alongside you.
*50% discount based on the current list price of Epic of $499/year. Promotional price is for new members only. Membership will renew annually at the then-current list price. Offer expires on April 18, 2026, at 11:59 pm PDT.
