Title: Is Meta Platforms a Hot Internet Content and Information Stock as It Invests Heavily in AI_
Date: 2026-04-16 06:45
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/meta-platforms-hot-internet-content-064556978.html?.tsrc=rss
Content:
Oops, something went wrong
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
Tax refunds shoot up as Americans take advantage of new deductions
S&P 500 closes above 7,000 for the first time, Nasdaq hits record as stocks erase Iran war losses
The former sneaker company's stock rose over 600% after announcing its rebrand as an AI company
S&P 500, Nasdaq rise as Dow falls amid hopes for US-Iran talks
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq rallied toward record highs on hopes of an Iran deal while oil tumbled
Bitcoin bounced above $74,000, but Wall Street warns it could go lower before it goes higher
US stocks rise amid Iran deal hopes, earnings rush, cooler-than-expected PPI
JPMorgan profits rise 13%, Dimon warns of 'increasingly complex set of risks'
US stocks sink after Trump orders Hormuz blockade against Iran
Goldman Sachs Q1 profits climb thanks to jumps in M&A dealmaking and record equity trading
The stock market's latest rally is reviving a familiar trade — but not all of the Magnificent Seven are coming along for the ride.
Gen Z is driving IRA contributions to record highs. Here's how to get started.
Wall Street strategists say it's time to 'jump in' with tech stocks
Trump says US will blockade Strait of Hormuz after Iran talks fail (Bloomberg)
Bank earnings, US-Iran talks, and signs of stability for stocks: What to watch this week
Shaq, in NYC discussing his new investment with retailer tm:rw, said the NBA dunk contest isn't what it used to be.
Used car prices hit highest levels since 2023 and could push higher
Why Starlink is so important to SpaceX's IPO
What to know about X Money, Elon Musk's fintech app that claims to pay 6% on savings
The housing market is shifting toward buyers. Just not in New Jersey.
Wall Street's biggest banks are riding into the first quarter earnings season on far less certain ground than where they began 2026.
Watch: OpenAI CEO Sam Altman's house was reportedly the target of a Molotov cocktail attack on Friday. Yahoo Finance's Dan Howley explains.
Stocks post second straight winning week amid fragile US-Iran ceasefire
US tariff revenue dropped by over $4 billion in March. It's down almost 30% since October.
US stocks open higher after March CPI inflation data shows energy surge
Inflation soars by most since 2022 as gas prices bite
Americans close to retirement are saving for later, but they're worried about getting by right now
Government data out Friday will show how much consumer prices rose in March — and forecasts point to soaring inflation.
Palantir plunges after 'Big Short' investor Michael Burry says Anthropic is eating its lunch
Stocks rebounded to extend their winning streak, while oil rose ahead of US-Iran talks
Stocks turned positive after Israel agreed to talks with Lebanon, reviving optimism for the US-Iran ceasefire
US stocks pull back, oil surges as US-Iran ceasefire looks increasingly shaky
Sticky reading on inflation pre-war will keep Fed on hold
The New York Times may have found bitcoin founder Satoshi Nakamoto. Here's what you need to know.
Fed officials saw risks of the Iran war increasing inflation and delaying rate cuts in a March meeting
The Strait of Hormuz has immediately become the first major flash point of Trump's 'fragile' ceasefire
US stocks surged while oil prices plunged as relief from a fragile US-Iran ceasefire rippled through markets
US stocks soar, with Dow surging nearly 1,400 points as Iran truce restarts Hormuz traffic
Delta beats on Q1 earnings, maintains guidance despite fuel spike, TSA headwinds
Investors are turning to social media and following 'finfluencers' to inform their investment decisions
High new car prices, rising gas costs, and rising interest rates brought buyers to used car lots
Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq futures soar after Trump calls for two-week ceasefire
Markets weigh the chances of economic fallout from an attack on Iran against previous threats from Trump
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq ended the day slightly higher on hopes of an Iran deadline extension
Anthropic launches cybersecurity partnership with Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Nvidia, and others
Tech is doing everything right and getting left behind. Here's what could turn that around.
US stocks drift lower as Trump's deadline for Iran ultimatum looms
US gas prices risk topping $5 per gallon if the Strait of Hormuz stays closed, JPMorgan says
Netflix stands to get richer after losing Warner Bros. bidding war. Here's why.
Goldman Sachs delivered a warning to laid-off tech workers that it will take more time to find a new job than expected
Meta Platforms, Inc. (NASDAQ:META) is one of the10 Best Internet Content and Information Stocks to Buy.
Meta Platforms, Inc. (NASDAQ:META) is investing heavily in AI like the other Big Techs. During the Q4 2025 earnings release, Meta mentioned its AI-related Capex to reach between $115 billion and $135 billion in 2026, almost twice its Capex in 2025.
Considering its strong AI-centric policy, on March 31, Meta Platforms launched a new line of AI-powered prescription glasses under its Ray-Ban Meta lineup. The company is expanding its smart eyewear as the sales of its glasses have crossed millions. In 2025, the Meta glasses sales growth tripled year-over-year, exceeding 7 million units.
Meta’s AI glasses, in partnership with EssilorLuxottica, have entered a new phase, ‘Ray-Ban Meta Optics Styles.’ Meta glasses will now support all prescriptions and feature improved comfort design elements. The U.S. pre-orders will be available for retail from April 14, with pricing starting at $499.
Along with hardware upgrades, Meta mentioned software and AI upgrades, including deeper interactions across social media apps, WhatsApp message summaries with on-device processing and encryption, and nutrition tracking through voice or image input.
Continuing to strengthen its position as a social media giant, Meta has acquired Moltbook, a social networking platform for AI agents. On March 10, Axios reported that Meta completed the acquisition of Moltbook. With the acquisition, Meta will onboard Moltbook’s co-founders Matt Schlicht and Ben Parr into the company’s Superintelligence Labs, led by Alexander Wang. Meta’s acquisition of Moltbook signifies the growing competition among leading tech companies to scale AI talent and capabilities around autonomous AI agents. Moltbook is described as a Reddit-style platform where AI bots interact and share code. The platform is built using AI tools to perform real-time tasks.
A total of 72 analysts are covering META, with 65 rating the stock a Buy, while 7 have given it a Hold rating. The average price target of $850 implies an upside potential of almost 34% as of April 13.
Meta Platforms, Inc. (NASDAQ:META) is a world-leading internet content and technology company that develops products to connect people through mobile phones, computers, virtual reality headsets, and AI glasses. The company operates through two segments, including Family of Apps (FoA) and Reality Labs (RL).
While we acknowledge the potential of META as an investment, we believe certain AI stocks offer greater upside potential and carry less downside risk. If you're looking for an extremely undervalued AI stock that also stands to benefit significantly from Trump-era tariffs and the onshoring trend, see our free report on thebest short-term AI stock.
READ NEXT:40 Most Popular Stocks Among Hedge Funds Heading Into 2026and12 Oversold Financial Stocks to Invest in According to Hedge Funds.
Disclosure: None.Follow Insider Monkey on Google News.
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
Sign in to access your portfolio
