Title: Apple's Latest Round of Product Announcements May Be More Important Than You Think
Date: 2026-04-15 17:20
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/15/apples-latest-round-of-product-announcements-may-b/?.tsrc=rss
Content:
A key detail in Apple's latest products indicates a significant shift at the company.
Apple(AAPL+2.94%)hasn't come out with a blockbuster new product for a long time. And that didn't change with its latest announcements in March.
The biggest new product it released is a low-end laptop computer, the MacBook Neo. It complements the iPhone 17e release, which rounds out the bottom of its iPhone lineup. Both are priced at $599.
That price is notable. It's the same as what was charged for the iPhone 16e last year, despite hefty price hikes for some major components.
Demand from artificial intelligence (AI) data centers have pushed the price of memorychipsand flash storage to new highs. Nonetheless, Apple has decided to keep its pricing steady. And that might be more important than a new blockbuster product.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Image source: Getty Images.
The lack of a price hike for the iPhone 17e and the release of the low-end MacBook Neo indicate that management is now looking to compete on pricing. That's because memory chip shortages have pushed prices significantly higher over the past few months.
Samsungreportedly doubled the price it's charging Apple for memory in February.Samsung's consumer electronics division isn't absorbing the price hike; it raised prices on its flagship smartphone models as well as other devices like laptops this month.
When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is1,002%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to195%for the S&P 500.
They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor.
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 16, 2026.
Appleis in a far better position than almost any other company to absorb the price fluctuations for memory chips. The iPhone lineup has some of the best gross margins among smartphone manufacturers.
Lower-end device makers don't have as much room and will be forced to raise prices to remain profitable. Counterpoint Research estimated average selling prices for smartphones could climb 6.9% this year.
Apple reportedly bought up memory chips at higher prices earlier this year before they could climb even higher this quarter, ensuring it has enough supply for this fall's flagship release. Ming-Chi Kuo, an analyst at TF International Securities, doesn't expect a price hike this fall, either, as a result of its strategic planning.
The move will surely affect Apple's gross margin, which has climbed substantially higher over the last few years. Its trailing-12-month gross margin reached 47% as of the end of 2025, compared to 38% at the end of 2020.
Memory pricing is sure to come back down over the next few years as supply catches up with demand, allowing Apple's margins to expand again. However, it's unlikely many consumer electronics companies will go back to lower pricing once that happens. Consumer pricing is sticky, which puts Apple in a very strong long-term position.
The strategy of absorbing higher component prices and taking less profit up-front may indicate a further shift toward Apple's services business, which generated $30 billion in sales last quarter, up 14% year over year. It's a much higher-margin business than selling devices, and its growth is fueled by Apple taking an increasing share of the device market.
With more-affordable devices, Apple could increase its share. And even if those sales end up coming in at a lower gross margin, it can make up for those lost profits with growing service sales. That makes customer lifetime value the metric to watch (although it's unlikely management will share any precise details).
In that context, the MacBook Neo makes perfect sense. It's designed to compete with Google Chromebooks, theAlphabetlow-powered laptops that are popular options for teens and students. If the Neo can capture share in that market, bringing younger users into its broader product and services system, it can extend the customer lifetime and their lifetime value.
That's certainly a shift in Apple's strategy, which makes last month's product announcements more important than they might seem at first blush. It will be worth listening to management's commentary about pricing and memory chips on upcoming earnings calls, and seeing how it positions its services business to extract more value from customers over the long run.
While gross margin compression could weigh on earnings this year, the impact will be mostly temporary. Market share gains could help offset it, and Apple remains a smart long-term holding.




Before you buy stock inApple, consider this:
The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andApplewasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years.
Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $573,160!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,204,712!*
Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is1,002% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to195%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors.
See the 10 stocks ›
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 16, 2026.

Adam Levyhas positions in Alphabet and Apple. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet and Apple and is short shares of Apple. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy.
This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over55 Metas.
What in the world could be worth 55 Metas? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited.
Continue ›

*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends
Get our brand-new Epic Portfolio for
Most investors have a portfolio built for a market that no longer exists. Our CEO, Tom Gardner, challenged our best teams to build a"plan, not just a list"—a complete, ready-to-invest portfolio designed for this chaotic market.
We believe in these stocks so much that The Motley Fool is investing$100,000of our own cash right alongside you.
*50% discount based on the current list price of Epic of $499/year. Promotional price is for new members only. Membership will renew annually at the then-current list price. Offer expires on April 18, 2026, at 11:59 pm PDT.
