Title: Rethinking Nike_ Is the Iconic Brand Still a Buy Based on its Turnaround Story_
Date: 2026-04-14 22:45
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/14/rethinking-nike-is-the-iconic-brand-still-a-buy-af/?.tsrc=rss
Content:
It's not time to bail on Nike just yet.
Investing in a turnaround company is exciting because if you're right that the management team can right the ship, you're rewarded with a rising stock price.
That's what may have largely attracted some newer shareholders toNike(NKE+2.81%), as Elliott Hill took thehelm as CEOin late 2024 to get the iconic sneaker seller back on track.
But the company's latest earnings report also highlighted one risk ofinvesting in a turnaround story.
Image source: Getty Images.
Nike faced several challenges over the last few years, but broadly, the narrative has been about the retailer trying to regain relevance.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Relying more on its iconic status than on innovation, Nike has been left with aging inventory that requires heavy discounts to sell.
The company is slowly regaining momentum, with its fiscal 2026 third quarter  highlighting progress in its running and global football divisions, as well as improving wholesale revenue in North America. It's also seeing strong demand for its Nike Mind platform, which attracted more than 2 million signups for its innovative footwear.
One little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly" owns the technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size.
We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name.
Still, it wasn't enough to offset a disappointing outlook for the future. For Q4 2026, Nike expects total revenue to fall as much as 4% year over year, while revenue from China is expected to decline by around 20%.
The risks of investing in a turnaround are that it may take longer than expected or never happen at all. For Nike shareholders, the good news is that this appears to be a case of taking longer.
Wall Street is currently fixated on Nike's China revenue, as that 20% drop is an eye-catching figure. But as management has shared, that is part of a plan to reduce sales and prevent inventory from piling up.I would watch for updates on how that's going, but I wouldn't forget to pay attention to North America as part of the turnaround, as it was the company's largest revenue source in 2025.
Management said the region is "leading our comeback," and if Nike can keep innovating and driving new sales, it can eventually be a successful turnaround story. It will just require management to execute and patience from investors to reap the potential rewards.




Before you buy stock inNike, consider this:
The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andNikewasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years.
Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $573,160!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,204,712!*
Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is1,002% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to195%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors.
See the 10 stocks ›
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 16, 2026.

Jack Delaneyhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Nike. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy.
This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over35 Amazons.
What in the world could be worth 35 Amazons? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited.
Continue ›

*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends
Get our brand-new Epic Portfolio for
Most investors have a portfolio built for a market that no longer exists. Our CEO, Tom Gardner, challenged our best teams to build a"plan, not just a list"—a complete, ready-to-invest portfolio designed for this chaotic market.
We believe in these stocks so much that The Motley Fool is investing$100,000of our own cash right alongside you.
*50% discount based on the current list price of Epic of $499/year. Promotional price is for new members only. Membership will renew annually at the then-current list price. Offer expires on April 18, 2026, at 11:59 pm PDT.
