Title: Nike Stock Is Down 76% From Its High. Is It Too Late to Buy, or Right on Time_
Date: 2026-04-15 06:35
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/15/nike-stock-is-down-76-from-its-high-is-it-too-late/?.tsrc=rss
Content:
The company is in the midst of a recovery, but does that work in the investor's favor?
Nike(NKE+2.81%)stock has been falling for a while now, and it last saw an all-time high back in 2021. It's down a crushing 76% from that peak as the company tries to fix the mistakes that brought it to this position.
There are reasons to suspect that Nike can stage a comeback, but there's no guarantee. Is thisan opportunity to buy on the dip, or a value trap?
Image source: Nike.
Nike made a few missteps that have led to this situation. When it decided to focus on its direct-to-consumer business, it seemed like a good strategy at the time. It built up a loyal following of fans and had more control over its business. Plus, direct selling has higher margins.
While things were looking good for a while, the company let down its guard in a number of ways. First, the retailers Nike had left out carried more products from smaller companies, and customers, even Nike fans, enjoyed the broad selection and options in large retail stores. Brands likeOn Holdingand Brooks, aBerkshire Hathawaycompany, have soared. Next, Nike relied on its branding and fell behind in technical innovation, creating even more space for the competition to get ahead.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
New CEO Elliott Hill has crafted a strategy to get back into the game. Nike reinstated wholesale partnerships and has an innovation system to launch more products faster. But while there are signs of a recovery, it could take a while for Nike to return to strong growth.
The 2026 fiscal third quarter (ended Feb. 28) was disappointing, with flat revenue, though wholesale revenue increased 5% year over year as the company worked through bringing wholesale channels back. Gross margin fell to 40.2%, well below competition like On andLululemon Athletica, which reported 63.9% and 54.9%, respectively, in their most recent quarters.
When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is1,002%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to195%for the S&P 500.
They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor.
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 16, 2026.
The business in China, one of Nike's biggest markets, continues to experience serious issues, and management is guiding for sales in China to decline 20% year over year in the fourth quarter. The company is shipping less inventory to China, where it has to clear out marked-down products before it can revitalize the business, indicating that sales won't increase in the near term. The Converse brand is also undergoing a major overhaul, and sales declined 35% year over year in the third quarter.
On the positive side, Nike'sdividendyields a high 3.8% at its recent price as the stock plunges.
I can't say it's too late to buy Nike stock, because the company has the tools and brand name to stage a real comeback -- at some point. Its stock is also a good bet for passive income. However, I also wouldn't say now is the right time to buy. Nike is still picking up the pieces from its mistakes, and investors shouldn't expect a quick recovery.




Before you buy stock inNike, consider this:
The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andNikewasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years.
Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $573,160!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,204,712!*
Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is1,002% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to195%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors.
See the 10 stocks ›
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 16, 2026.

Jennifer Saibilhas positions in On Holding. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Berkshire Hathaway, Lululemon Athletica Inc., Nike, and On Holding. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy.
This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over35 Amazons.
What in the world could be worth 35 Amazons? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited.
Continue ›

*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends
*$249 for one year is a promotional price for new members only. 50% discount based on the current list price of Epic of $499/year. Membership will renew annually at the then-current list price. Offer expires on April 18, 2026, at 11:59 pm PDT.
